Kubernetes
=========================

1. In general, Kubernetes is installed as a cluster which is a group of nodes. Kubernetes in Production usecase generally installed in a master/node architecture.

2. Consider you have 2 nodes in your cluster, In the 1st cluster there are 100 containers created. Assume the 1st container is consuming a very big memory and due to this 99th container is not getting enough memory. In this case, immediately kubernetes will put 99th container in the 2nd node. This is because Kubernetes have Multi Node architecture and Kubernetes solves the 1st problem of Docker i.e Single Host Nature of Docker containers.

3. Replication Controller / Replica sets : responsible for Auto scaling in Kubernetes. In Kubernetes, everything we configure through YAML Files. Whenever we need to increase the number of containers when there is heavy load during festive seasons, we can simply increase the count of Replica sets. This is just a manual way. But Kubernetes also has HPA (Horizontal POD Auto scaler) where we can say whenever there is load just increase Replica sets.

This solves the 2nd problem of Docker i.e Auto Scaling.

4. API Server : Whenever API Server gets information that a container is going down, immediately kubernetes creates a new container even before the container goes down. The end user will not understands that the container goes down and a new container was created, Kubernetes was that much speed and quick.

This solves the 3rd problem of Docker i.e Auto Healing

