Architecture of Kubernetes
==================================

1. In Docker, the simplest term is container .....where as in Kubernetes the simplest term is pod.

2. Consider you have a Java Application and the application will run only if you have a Java runtime. Similarly, in Docker if you dont have a container runtime then the container will never run. In Docker, we have docker runtime called as Dockershim.

3. In Kubernetes also we need a container runtime to run the pod.  In kubernetes, docker is not mandatory. In docker there is dockershim whereas in kubernetes we can use dockershim, containerd, cri-o. These arll are container runtimes. In Kubernetes, the component "kubelet" is responsible for creatio of pods and ensuring the pod is up and running.

4. In docker we have network mechanisms such as Docker0 and bridge network. Where as in kubernetes, we have component called as "kube proxy" and it is responsible for networking in Kubernetes. Every pod in kubernetes cluster must be allocated with an IP Address and it has to be allocated Load balancing capability, "kube poxy" will do this.

5. API Server (heart of kubernetes) : API Server is responsible for taking all the incoming requests from outside world. It exposes the kubernetes API and allows users to interact with the cluster.

6. Scheduler : Scheduler is responsible for scheduling pods or scheduling resources on Kubernetes. API server decides on which node the resources must be scheduled whereas Scheduler will schedule the resources on the particular decided node.

7. ETCD : Etcd is responsible for storing the kubernetes entire cluster information in the form of objects (key: value pairs).

8. Controller Manager : It is responsible for controlling the state of various resources within the cluster such as maintaining the no of pods, maintaining the nodes etc.

There are types in Controllers as below :

1. Replication Controller / Replica-sets
2. Node Controller
3. Service Controller
4. Deployment Controller
5. Namespace Controller
